1. Log into Google Cloud Console
Go to the Google Cloud Console.
Sign in using your Google Cloud account credentials.
2. Create a New Project (Optional)
If you don’t have a project set up already, you can create a new one:

In the Google Cloud Console, go to the "Select a project" dropdown at the top of the page.
Click "New Project".
Enter a name and select a billing account (if you haven't already set one up).
Click "Create".
3. Enable Google Cloud Compute API (If Not Already Enabled)
Ensure the Compute Engine API is enabled for your project. If it’s not enabled, go to the API Library and enable it.

4. Create the Virtual Machine
Navigate to Compute Engine:

In the Google Cloud Console, use the search bar and type "Compute Engine".
Click "VM Instances" under the Compute Engine section.
Click on "Create Instance":

This will open the Create an instance page where you can configure the VM.
Configure the VM:

Name: Enter a name for your VM (e.g., rhel7-vm).
Region: Select the region where you want to create the VM (e.g., us-central1, europe-west1).
Zone: Select the specific availability zone within the region (e.g., us-central1-a).
Machine Type: Select the desired machine type. For example, use e2-medium for a smaller machine (2 vCPUs, 8GB RAM) or choose another instance size based on your requirements.
Choose the RHEL 7 Image:

Under the Boot Disk section, click "Change".
In the pop-up window, under the OS images tab, select "Red Hat" from the dropdown.
Select the latest RHEL 7 version from the list of available images. If it's not listed directly, search for RHEL to find the appropriate version.
Example: RHEL 7.9 (x86_64).
Set Disk Configuration:

By default, the boot disk will be created with the image selected. You can adjust the disk size and type (e.g., SSD or Standard persistent disk).
You can add additional disks as needed.
Network Settings:

Under Network interfaces, you can use the default network or configure a custom network. The default setup works for most use cases.
Enable External IP (which is the default) to allow internet access to the VM, or set it to None if you don’t want the VM to have a public IP address.
Firewall Rules:

Enable the Allow HTTP traffic and Allow HTTPS traffic if you plan to use the VM as a web server.
Ensure Allow SSH traffic is enabled to allow SSH access to the VM.
Click "Create":

Once all configurations are set, click Create to launch the VM.
5. Connect to Your RHEL 7 VM
Once the VM is created, you can SSH into it. Follow these steps:

In the Google Cloud Console, navigate to VM Instances.

Find your newly created RHEL 7 VM in the list and note the External IP.

You can use the SSH button in the console to connect to the VM directly.

Alternatively, you can SSH from your local machine using the following command (ensure you have the Google Cloud SDK installed and configured):
bash
Copy
gcloud compute ssh <your-instance-name> --zone <your-zone>
For example:
bash
Copy
gcloud compute ssh rhel7-vm --zone us-central1-a
If you have not set up the gcloud CLI yet, follow the GCP installation guide.
Once logged in, you can confirm the VM is running RHEL 7 by checking the OS version:

bash
Copy
cat /etc/redhat-release
This should return something like:

bash
Copy
Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.x (Maipo)
6. Update Your RHEL 7 VM
After logging into the RHEL 7 VM, it’s a good practice to update it:

bash
Copy
sudo yum update -y
This will ensure all installed packages are up-to-date with the latest patches.

